1 english muffin
cheddar
2 eggs
1/4 of an avocado, sliced (at the end)
some bacon (at least 2 slices)

Things to get ready before you start the bacon:
Cut the english muffin in half and put a slice of cheddar on each piece. Turn your oven on at 350 F. When your bacon is about halfway done, put the english muffin (on a cookie sheet or w/e) in the oven.

Let's talk about bacon.
Lots of people cook bacon as strips that are flipped periodically. This is an inferior method.

Start with a cast iron skillet. Put it on just above medium and grab the bacon (in your hand) and cut the whole block in half (scissors are great for this). However many strips you're cooking, they all need to be cut in half. Put them in the pan. It doesn't matter if they're layered, just don't fill the skillet like you're making a stir fry. 3 layers max probably.

They're going to start to sizzle. Flip the whole lot of them (this only happens once). The key here is stirring, not flipping. Bacon grease is going to build up in the pan. It shouldn't be spitting. If it is, turn it down. The bacon grease is what cooks the bacon so easily. Stir gently every now and then, more frequently as the bacon grease gets hotter and starts cooking it faster (lots of bubbles, almost like foam). When it is ALMOST the colour you like it to be, quickly scoop it out of the pan onto a plate with some double-layered paper towel on it. You want to wrap it up in the paper towel to absorb excess grease. Drain almost all of the grease into whatever receptacle you have dedicated to bacon grease.

Note: you need a decent amount of bacon in the pan for this method to work because it's the shallow layer of grease in the pan that you use to cook the bacon

Now it's time to deal with everything else. 

I hope you've been checking the english muffin periodically because it sucks when you burn it. The skillet should still be warm (probably hot) and covered in grease and gritty with bacon bits. Crack your eggs into that, put it on LOW. When the eggs are almost done, flip them, pull the pan off the heat, then assemble your sandwich like so:

english muffin (toasted, cheesy)
bacon strips
avocado strips
egg
salt and pepper if you want it (you should)

Open-faced breakfast sandies are the bomb. Don't waste your time on all that starch. Prioritize for filling.

To get the timing all right, you will just have to do this a few times. Every stove/oven works differently and if you're not using a cast iron skillet, then I don't know what to tell you. Everything's going to be way off. 
