Recipe adapted from Mike Burton's Liege waffles recipe

Ingredients:
100g whole wheat flour
320g unbleached all purpose flour
1 pkt (7g) dry yeast
180g milk
8 oz (2 sticks) softened butter
2 eggs
3g (1/2 tsp) salt
5g (1 tsp) vanilla
2 oz brown sugar

Method:
1. Scald the milk (180F) in microwave or saucepan, then transfer to another container to cool to lukewarm 110-120F. Scalding the milk destroys the enzymes that would otherwise impede gluten formation.
2. Dissolve yeast in lukewarm milk with a fork and let rest for 5m. (Butter impedes yeast, so starting it in milk or water gives it a fighting chance.)
3. Gradually add all ingredients to the flour, except the sugar (sugar also impedes yeast) using a stand mixer with the dough hook.
4. You’re making an enriched dough (basically a dough with lots of fat), typical of breads such as brioche, so knead the dough to windowpanes -- cut off a small portion of the dough, and slowly stretch it out until it is very thin in the center. It should be able to stretch thin enough that light can shine through without breaking, like a windowpane.
5. You have two options for rising:
- Let dough rise until double in size, about 30m to 60m. This makes a delicious, sweet waffle. If you don’t have a proofing drawer, you can use a cold oven. Put the dough in a covered bowl in the cold oven. Put a tray or casserole dish on a second rack below the dough and fill it with about 1L of boiling water. Keep the oven door closed while proofing. OR…
- For a deeper flavor, let the dough rise covered overnight in the refrigerator. Remove from fridge and bring back to room temperature for about 30-60m before proceeding.
6. Add the sugar.
7. Divide dough into ~100g loose balls, should make ~10.
8. Bake in heated and buttered waffle iron.
9. Consider serving with whipped cream and strawbeerry balsamic compote (below)

Strawberry Balsamic Compote

Ingredients:
2 c. strawberries, cut into small pieces
1/4 c. balsamic vinegar
1/4 c. brown sugar

Method:
1. In a small saucepan, reduce the balsamic vinegar until it thickens quite a bit (where you're almost worried it will start to burn)
2. Add the sugar and the strawberries and crank the heat up to medium high
3. Cook it until the strawberries are soft and have really absorbed the balsamic flavor, stirring occasionally
