Prerequisite: you're going to need a silicone mold for chocolates. Put it on a cutting board in the freezer. The reason will become obvious later. Also probably read this whole thing before you start because you might want to make candied orange zest.

Chocolate:
1/2 c. coconut oil
1/2 c. cocoa
1/4 c. maple syrup + dash of vanilla

Melt the oil on basically your lowest setting in a small saucepan. Add everything else and take off heat. Whisk together.

Filling ideas:
1. Ganache (legit recipe, not mine): 2 parts chocolate, 1 part cream. Stir/whisk together
2. Espresso: Chocolate, cream, espresso (if you have a moka pot or some other faculty to make concentrated coffee)
3. Praline (super fake but delicious): toasted hazelnuts ground to a pulp in a mortar + pestle and mixed with a small amount of nutella

You can be creative with these. Try making a ganache and then adding a little splash of some liqueur. PROTIP: add a tiny bit, mix together, test, add more if necessary. You can always add more, but you can't add less.

Topping ideas:
1. Crushed up nuts (good to differentiate between chocolates)
2. Candied orange zest
   a) zest an orange using the fine setting of a cheese grater
   b) put 1/4 c. sugar and 1/8 c. water in small saucepan. heat up slowly (medium?), swirling every now and then, until sugar dissolves
   c) add orange zest
   d) let bubble mildly (turn down if necessary) until almost all of the water has evaporated
   e) scoop out with a fork and put on parchment paper. let cool. 

If the candied orange zest hardens (might stay soft), you can just cut it up into small pieces and sprinkle it onto the chocolates.

THE METHOD:
1. Bring the cutting board out of the freezer.
2. Using a small spoon, put a bit of chocolate (couple millimeters) in the bottom of a few of the chocolate molds. 
3. Pick up the cutting board with the silicone and tilt it around to try to get the edges coated. Repeat for all the molds.
4. Put a bit of your fillings in the molds as you see fit.
5. Cover with your remaining chocolate.
6. Put the cutting board and tray in the fridge to set for a few hours or overnight. Pop 'em out and put them in some sort of container or your mouth.

NOTE: these chocolates should always be kept in the fridge because coconut oil melts at such a low temperature.
