Orange marmalade:
9 oranges (peel and fruit)
1 grapefruit (peel and fruit)
2 lemons (peel and juice)
9 cups sugar

Notes: this yielded 11 jars and could probably have used less sugar

Grapefruit lime marmalade:
6 grapefruits (peel and fruit)
5 limes (peel and juice)
1 orange (peel and fruit)
5 cups sugar

December 2018 orange grapefruit marmalade:
10 small oranges (fruit and peel)
2 large grapefruit (fruit and peel)
2 lemons (juice added near end)
peel weighed 250 g
fruit weighed 1064 g
1 kg sugar
2 bay leaves
added some water towards the end (maybe a cup)
yielded 7 jars

Notes: this yielded 7 jars and was SCRUMPTIOUS, but crystallized later in the fridge (too much sugar, or it was cooked too little, or too long). I think it was cooked too long.

Method:
1. put a plate in the freezer
1. peel the fruit with a vegetable peeler
2. jullienne the peel into little slivers
3. boil the peel in water 3 times for 10 minutes, discarding the water each time, to remove some of the bitterness
4. while the peel is boiling, prepare the fruit by removing the pith and chopping into small pieces, removing any seeds
5. cook the fruit and the peel with the sugar until the jam sets when you drop a bit on the plate you put in the freezer. you can tell that it has set if, after leaving it on the plate for a minute in the fridge, when you run your finger through it, it doesn't re-settle
6. pour the jam into the sanitized jars, leaving about a cm at the top unfilled
7. immediately seal the jars with the sanitized lids; as the jam cools, the air left in the jar contracts and the jar lids will pop down

Sanitizing the jars:
1. you can sanitize the glass part by putting them in the oven at 425 for 10 minutes as the jam is cooking (NOTE: make this easier by putting them all on a baking tray, plus a small glass liquid measure which you can use to scoop the jam out of the pot)
2. for the lids, put them in a bowl and submerge them in just-boiled water

More ideas to explore:
ginger lime
lemon thyme
strawberry balsamic
add a vanilla bean to some jam
